# Build and Dependency Management

## Apache Maven

- Manage dependencies and build your project. Facilitate project development and testing.
- POM (Project Object Model) - XML file that describes the project
- Depends on JDK installed
- Creating a new project: `mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.mycompany.app -DartifactId=my-app -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DinteractiveMode=false`
  - mvn archetype:generate: This command triggers Maven to generate a new project using an archetype.
  - DgroupId=com.mycompany.app: Specifies the group ID for your project. Folder structure after src>main>java.
  - DartifactId=my-app: Specifies the artifact ID, which is the name of the project.
  - DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart: Uses the Maven Quickstart archetype, a basic template for Java projects.
  - DinteractiveMode=false: Disables the interactive mode, so the project is generated with the given parameters without prompting for additional input.
- Maven archetypes: search `maven archetype list`

### Useful commands

- `mvn compile`: compile the project
  - Compile the project into Java bytecode inside the `target` folder
- `mvn test`: test the project
  - Run the unit test classes
- `mvn package`: package the project
  - Create a JAR file on the `target` folder
- `mvn clean`: clean the project
  - Delete the `target` folder

### Repositories

- Plugins and libraries that Maven provides. Types: local and remote.
- Remote: central source for Maven artifacts. Automatically configured by Super POM. [Central Repository](repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/)
  - We can config on pom.xml or Apache/maven/conf/settings.xml
- Local: local source for Maven artifacts.
  - Caching strategy.
  - Locals: `%USERPROFILE%\.m2\repository`(Windows) or `$HOME/.m2/repository`(Linux/Mac)

## POM

- Maven search from the `pom.xml` to build the project
- Describes:
  - Project name
  - Dependencies
  - Modules
  - Build configuration
  - Project details (description, license, url, etc.)
  - Environment configuration (repositories, tracking, profiles, etc.)
- <project> is the root element, mandatory. The other elements are optional, extends the ["Super POM"](https://maven.apache.org/ref/3.0.4/maven-model-builder/super-pom.html).
  - Minimal:
  ```xml
  <project>
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <groupId>com.mycompany.app</groupId>
    <artifactId>my-app</artifactId>
    <version>1</version>
  </project>
  ```

### Adding dependencies

- groupId: Id of the organization, follow the Java package naming convention
- artifactId: name of the project
- version: version of the project
- After, compile the project to see the changes
- Example:

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.guava</groupId>
    <artifactId>guava</artifactId>
    <version>31.1-jre</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```
